README.md, before:

# Puppet-Rbenv

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/alup/puppet-rbenv.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/alup/puppet-rbenv)
[![endorse](http://api.coderwall.com/alup/endorsecount.png)](http://coderwall.com/alup)

## About

This project provides powerful manifests for the installation of
[rbenv](https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv) (Ruby Version Management).
In a nutshell, it supports the following conveniences:

* Defined resources for the installation of rbenvs for one or more users, shared or standalone.
* Resources for the compilation of ruby interpreters (one or many, custom or predefined ruby build definitions), under specific rbenvs, users.
* Tools for the installation of arbitrary gems under specific rbenvs.
* Infrastructure to support rbenv plugins. We have already included [ruby-build](https://github.com/sstephenson/ruby-build) and [rbenv-vars](https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv-vars) plugins.
* Resource for handling `bundler`.

## Rbenv installation

You can use the module in your manifest with the following code:

```
rbenv::install { "someuser":
  group => 'project',
  home  => '/project'
}
```

This will apply an rbenv installation under "someuser" home dir
and place it into ".rbenv". You can change the resource title to
your taste, and pass the user on which install rbenv using the
`user` parameter.

The rbenv directory can be changed by passing the "root" parameter,
that must be an absolute path.

## Ruby compilation

To compile a ruby interpreter, you use `rbenv::compile` as follows:

```
rbenv::compile { "1.9.3-p327":
  user => "someuser",
  home => "/project",
}
```

The resource title is used as the ruby version, but if you have
multiple rubies under multiple users, you'll have to define them
explicitly:

```
rbenv::compile { "foo/1.8.7":
  user => "foo",
  ruby => "1.8.7-p370",
}

rbenv::compile { "bar/1.8.7":
  user => bar",
  ruby => "1.8.7-p370",
}
```

`rbenv rehash` is performed each time a new ruby or a new gem is
installed.

You can use the `global => true` parameter to set an interpreter as the
default (`rbenv global`) one for the given user. Please note that only one global
is allowed, duplicate resources will be defined if you specify
multiple global ruby version.

You can also provide a custom build definition to ruby-build by
specifying a `source` that can either be a `puppet:` source or
a file to be downloaded using `wget`:

```
rbenv::compile { "patched-ree":
  user   => "someuser",
  home   => "/project",
  source => "puppet://path-to-definition"
}
```

If you're using debugger gems, you'll probably need to keep source tree after building.
This is achieved by passing `keep => true` parameter.

```
rbenv::compile { "bar/1.8.7":
  user => bar",
  ruby => "1.8.7-p370",
  keep => true,
}
```

## Gem installation

You can install and keep gems updated for a specific ruby interpreter:

```
rbenv::gem { "unicorn":
  user => "foobarbaz",
  ruby => "1.9.3-p327",
}
```

Gems are handled using a custom Package provider that handles gems,
somewhat inspired by Puppet's Package one - thus `absent` and `latest`
work as expected.

You can specify a gem source with the optional `source` parameter:

```
rbenv::gem { "my_private_gem":
  user   => "foobarbaz",
  ruby   => "1.9.3-p327",
  source => "http://gems.mydoma.in/"
}
```

## rbenv plugins

To add a plugin to a rbenv installation, you use `rbenv::plugin` as follows:

```
rbenv::plugin { "my-plugin":
  user   => "someuser",
  source => "git://github.com/user/my-plugin.git"
}
```

There's also a built-in resource to add [rbenv-vars](https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv-vars)
for a user:

```
rbenv::plugin::rbenvvars { "someuser":
  # Optional:
  # source => "git://path-to-your/custom/rbenv-vars.git"
}
```

*NOTICE: `rbenv::install` automatically requires [ruby-build](https://github.com/sstephenson/ruby-build)
to compile rubies, if you want to use a different repository, you can specify
the resource on a separate manifest:*

```
rbenv::plugin::rubybuild { "someuser":
  source => "git://path-to-your/git/repo"
}
```

## Install module from puppet forge

You can install the latest release of this module by using the following
command:

```
puppet module install alup-rbenv
```

## Usage with Vagrant

A simple way to test this module is by using the
[Vagrant](http://http://vagrantup.com/) library.

An example of a Vagrantfile:

```
Vagrant::Config.run do |config|
   config.vm.box = "lucid32"
   config.vm.provision :puppet, :facter => { "osfamily" => "debian" }, :module_path => "modules" do |puppet|
     puppet.manifests_path = "manifests"
     puppet.manifest_file  = "base.pp"
     puppet.options        = %w[ --libdir=\\$modulepath/rbenv/lib ]
   end
end
```

The `--libdir=\\$modulepath/rbenv/lib` argument is important to make
puppet aware of the rbenvgem custom provider and type.


## Notes

This project contains a custom `rbenvgem` type for use by the client via module.

Custom types and facts (plugins) are gathered together and distributed via a file mount on
your Puppet master.

To enable module distribution you need to make changes on both the Puppet master and the clients.
Specifically, `pluginsync` must be enabled in puppet.conf configuration file on both the master and the clients.

```
[main]
pluginsync = true
```

## Supported Platforms

* CentOS
* Debian
* RHEL
* SuSE
* Ubuntu

## License

MIT License.

Copyright 2012 Andreas Loupasakis, Marcello Barnaba <vjt@openssl.it>, Fabio Rehm

Commit message:

Include metadata.json into repository, remove Modulefile, update gems, write instructions
Coording this manual: http://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/modules_publishing.html#modulefile-no-metadatajson

README.md, after:

# Puppet-Rbenv

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/alup/puppet-rbenv.png?branch=master)](http://travis-ci.org/alup/puppet-rbenv)
[![endorse](http://api.coderwall.com/alup/endorsecount.png)](http://coderwall.com/alup)

**Warning!**

This fork have next changes since v1.2.0 of upstream:
 1. Merged PR [alup/puppet-rbenv#95](https://github.com/alup/puppet-rbenv/pull/95) (allows to install patched rubies, thanks to @gsamokovarov )
 2. Bumped version to 1.2.1
 3. Removed Modulefile according to [official module update manual](http://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/modules_publishing.html#modulefile-no-metadatajson)

Installation:

    git clone git@github.com:Envek/puppet-rbenv.git # Clone it to your workstation
    gem install puppet
    cd puppet-rbenv
    puppet module build .                           # Build it

After that you will get a file named `alup-rbenv-1.2.1.tar.gz`, upload it to your Puppet master and install with:

    puppet module install /path/to/alup-rbenv-1.2.1.tar.gz --force

Don't forget to relaunch Puppet master (it loves to cache ruby code of modules).

## About

This project provides powerful manifests for the installation of
[rbenv](https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv) (Ruby Version Management).
In a nutshell, it supports the following conveniences:

* Defined resources for the installation of rbenvs for one or more users, shared or standalone.
* Resources for the compilation of ruby interpreters (one or many, custom or predefined ruby build definitions), under specific rbenvs, users.
* Tools for the installation of arbitrary gems under specific rbenvs.
* Infrastructure to support rbenv plugins. We have already included [ruby-build](https://github.com/sstephenson/ruby-build) and [rbenv-vars](https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv-vars) plugins.
* Resource for handling `bundler`.

## Rbenv installation

You can use the module in your manifest with the following code:

```
rbenv::install { "someuser":
  group => 'project',
  home  => '/project'
}
```

This will apply an rbenv installation under "someuser" home dir
and place it into ".rbenv". You can change the resource title to
your taste, and pass the user on which install rbenv using the
`user` parameter.

The rbenv directory can be changed by passing the "root" parameter,
that must be an absolute path.

## Ruby compilation

To compile a ruby interpreter, you use `rbenv::compile` as follows:

```
rbenv::compile { "1.9.3-p327":
  user => "someuser",
  home => "/project",
}
```

The resource title is used as the ruby version, but if you have
multiple rubies under multiple users, you'll have to define them
explicitly:

```
rbenv::compile { "foo/1.8.7":
  user => "foo",
  ruby => "1.8.7-p370",
}

rbenv::compile { "bar/1.8.7":
  user => bar",
  ruby => "1.8.7-p370",
}
```

`rbenv rehash` is performed each time a new ruby or a new gem is
installed.

You can use the `global => true` parameter to set an interpreter as the
default (`rbenv global`) one for the given user. Please note that only one global
is allowed, duplicate resources will be defined if you specify
multiple global ruby version.

You can also provide a custom build definition to ruby-build by
specifying a `source` that can either be a `puppet:` source or
a file to be downloaded using `wget`:

```
rbenv::compile { "patched-ree":
  user   => "someuser",
  home   => "/project",
  source => "puppet://path-to-definition"
}
```

If you're using debugger gems, you'll probably need to keep source tree after building.
This is achieved by passing `keep => true` parameter.

```
rbenv::compile { "bar/1.8.7":
  user => bar",
  ruby => "1.8.7-p370",
  keep => true,
}
```

## Gem installation

You can install and keep gems updated for a specific ruby interpreter:

```
rbenv::gem { "unicorn":
  user => "foobarbaz",
  ruby => "1.9.3-p327",
}
```

Gems are handled using a custom Package provider that handles gems,
somewhat inspired by Puppet's Package one - thus `absent` and `latest`
work as expected.

You can specify a gem source with the optional `source` parameter:

```
rbenv::gem { "my_private_gem":
  user   => "foobarbaz",
  ruby   => "1.9.3-p327",
  source => "http://gems.mydoma.in/"
}
```

## rbenv plugins

To add a plugin to a rbenv installation, you use `rbenv::plugin` as follows:

```
rbenv::plugin { "my-plugin":
  user   => "someuser",
  source => "git://github.com/user/my-plugin.git"
}
```

There's also a built-in resource to add [rbenv-vars](https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv-vars)
for a user:

```
rbenv::plugin::rbenvvars { "someuser":
  # Optional:
  # source => "git://path-to-your/custom/rbenv-vars.git"
}
```

*NOTICE: `rbenv::install` automatically requires [ruby-build](https://github.com/sstephenson/ruby-build)
to compile rubies, if you want to use a different repository, you can specify
the resource on a separate manifest:*

```
rbenv::plugin::rubybuild { "someuser":
  source => "git://path-to-your/git/repo"
}
```

## Install module from puppet forge

You can install the latest release of this module by using the following
command:

```
puppet module install alup-rbenv
```

## Usage with Vagrant

A simple way to test this module is by using the
[Vagrant](http://http://vagrantup.com/) library.

An example of a Vagrantfile:

```
Vagrant::Config.run do |config|
   config.vm.box = "lucid32"
   config.vm.provision :puppet, :facter => { "osfamily" => "debian" }, :module_path => "modules" do |puppet|
     puppet.manifests_path = "manifests"
     puppet.manifest_file  = "base.pp"
     puppet.options        = %w[ --libdir=\\$modulepath/rbenv/lib ]
   end
end
```

The `--libdir=\\$modulepath/rbenv/lib` argument is important to make
puppet aware of the rbenvgem custom provider and type.


## Notes

This project contains a custom `rbenvgem` type for use by the client via module.

Custom types and facts (plugins) are gathered together and distributed via a file mount on
your Puppet master.

To enable module distribution you need to make changes on both the Puppet master and the clients.
Specifically, `pluginsync` must be enabled in puppet.conf configuration file on both the master and the clients.

```
[main]
pluginsync = true
```

## Supported Platforms

* CentOS
* Debian
* RHEL
* SuSE
* Ubuntu

## License

MIT License.

Copyright 2012 Andreas Loupasakis, Marcello Barnaba <vjt@openssl.it>, Fabio Rehm
